pokhara

Pokhara, the 'Tourist Capital of Nepal,' is the second-largest city in this Himalayan country, after Kathmandu. At an altitude of more than 900m, it is one of the highest cities, making it the base for many world-famous treks. The highlight of the town is its Lakeside, which is a boating paradise flanked with charming shops, dreamy cafés, restaurants and pubs that make up this postcard-perfect town.

For adventure enthusiasts, Pokhara is a popular starting point for many treks in the Annapurna Range as well as many paragliding and river rafting opportunities. You can take solo or tandem rides, depending on your expertise. River rafting and white water rafting are offered on Seti Gandaki and her tributaries.

LUMBINI
Nestled in the Himalayas in Nepal,  the beautiful town of Lumbini is the birthplace of Lord Buddha. Lumbini is a UNESCO World Heritage Site with many ancient stupas dating back to 2000 years and monasteries built by past dynasties. People come here from all over the world to this abode of Buddhism to study scriptures, meditate, practice yoga, trek, learn more about Buddhism and find inner peace. 'Lumbini' literally means 'The Lovely' in Sanskrit, and true to its name it stands!

The entire site is decked up with prayer flags that have blessings and incantations upon them, which have been put up by thousands of tourists. Each of the monasteries here is architecturally distinctive, with beautiful façades and paintings. China, Japan, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Germany, France and other countries have their monasteries here in Lumbini. Avid trekkers can do the Lumbini Circuit Trek and witness 64 historical and archaeological sites around the area, including visits to villages where one can get an authentic experience of the local culture and hospitality.

Kathamandu
Sprawled over its namesake valley surrounded by Himalayan mountains, Kathmandu is Nepal’s capital and most-visited destination, full of ancient temples, golden pagodas, natural beauty and fascinating villages. At an elevation of 4,344 feet, Kathmandu marks the confluence of the Bagmati and Vishnumati rivers. One can find excellent trekking options of the world’s tallest peaks, stunning Indo-Tibetan and Newari craftsmanship, UNESCO-listed heritage landmarks and delicious food here.

Kathmandu is the gateway to exploring Nepal’s essence. Amidst the old city’s maze-like alleyways is the 1627-built Durbar Square, where locals frolic during Indra Jatra masked dance festival. Swayambhunath Stupa, Pashupatinath Temple, Monkey Temple and Boudha Stupa are some more eminent religious establishments. Outdoor enthusiasts flock to Nagarkot, Rani Pokhari Lake and Champadevi Hill for hiking, bungee jumping, rafting and mountain climbing. Learning about Buddhism at Kopan Monastery, buying pashmina shawls and trinkets at Indra Chowk and Thamel’s markets and digging into steaming momos are great ways to enhance the experience.

NAGARKOT
Located at a mere 28-kilometre drive away from Kathmandu, Nagarkot offers one of the best views of the Himalayas in the entire region as it has an altitude of 7000 feet (2000 metres)! Perched at the edge of Kathmandu Valley, Nagarkot gives you one of the widest panoramas of the Himalayan ranges - you can spot 8 out of the 13 Himalayan ranges from the comfort of your hotel. The mighty Annapurna, Manaslu, Langtang, Jugal, Everest, Numbur, Ganesh Himal and the Rolwaling ranges can be seen from Nagarkot on a clear day!

An erstwhile summer retreat of Nepali, Indian and British royalty, this village rose to fame after tourists thronged the area in recent years. The idyllic village sits serenely in the midst of nature - the only sounds you can hear are the birds chirping and the breeze whistling through the pines.

JANAKPUR
Janakpur is a city in Nepal which is believed to be the birthplace of Goddess Sita and the place of her marriage with Lord Ram. Also known as the City of Ponds, Janakpur boasts of more than seventy ponds that dot its verdant landscape. Here you can learn more about the ancient and revered Hindu epic, the Ramayana and its significance today. Visit the actual sites mentioned in the great epic and listen to local lore as well! 

The city is located in the Terai region of Nepal and is the administrative headquarters of Dhanusa district. The Ram Janaki Temple is the main attraction in Janakpur.

Chitwan National Park is the first step that Nepal took towards protection of the wildlife and nature at large. Located in the subtropical inner Terai lowlands of south-central Nepal, the national park covers an area of 952.63 sq. km. over the districts of Nawalparasi, Parsa, Makwanpur and Chitwan itself. The place was granted its long-due status of UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1984, and ever since its inception 11 years before that, Chitwan National Park has been getting the footfalls of the nature lovers and wildlife enthusiasts.